okay so the Python version is clearly
more concise so I want to do a little
compare and contrast between Java on
Python here yes so in every language
there are always going to be some
features that are first-class citizens
things that are considered integral to
the language things that are supposed to
really shape the way you think about how
to solve problems in that language and
when it comes to data structures the
language features that are first
classify the data structures that are
first class there's often a special
syntax for creating using those types of
objects so it actually gets even a
little more messy and you will see this
definitely on your project which is
where suppose in Python you want to make
a dictionary that tells you how many
legs different creatures have so in
Python you can do that in a line and say
num legs equals well horses have four
legs dog stuff for humans f2 fish of
zero but in Java if you wanted to create
this collection you would need to do
something like this right you can write
a helper method that might shorten
things but the default way is you would
need to create a map and then you need
to put each thing one at a time yes so
you is just a feature of Java you don't
have dictionaries or associative arrays
or what we want to call them as tip your
fingers and there wasn't actually some
debate about introducing something like
this into Java so that was ultimately
canceled two years three two and a half
years ago
maybe it'll return someday but they
found it was too messy because in Java
the thing was it's not just collections
insects it's not just list sets and maps
there's other things that people use and
so they wanted to forget is there some
general syntax that makes sense for any
collection anybody might ever write
whereas in Python this symbol is used
for dictionaries for maps right so in
Java they wanted to make it extensible
and they didn't find the right set of
things to make it work so programming
languages are made by people maybe as
the lesson there and sometimes is really
hard challenges okay so one thing that's
interesting about Java is that it
actually gives you the control to
separate implementation from data to
abstract data types so the power user
can decide I want a hash map or a tree
map in both cases is the same abstract
data type the dictionary but over here
it's hash table base and here it is
balanced binary search tree base and and
so in effect what that does is the user
who really really needs to tune their
performance can make choices
whereas in Python you get a dictionary
and that's the dictionary you get unless
you go implement something from scratch
also for example if you've iterated ok
that is you just go through each of the
keys in this tree map you'll get them in
alphabetical order but in hashmap you
don't get them in alphabetical order in
fact you have no guaranteed order so
hashmaps probably faster but in most
cases but a tree map is going to give
you back keys in alphabetical order so
that's a little bit you get a little
finer grained control alright
so my job on 61b by the way it seems
like it's more verbose ok so some things
is that so I would argue then even
though Java programs are certainly more
verbose no question they think they
can't actually faster the right program
one of the reasons is you get static
pipes which is nice because you get type
checking but also one of the things that
I absolutely love about Java is that
when you look at a program and you have
a method like collect word count as long
as it's not too complicated what's nice
is when I see this I know someone's
giving me two lists and I'm giving back
a map that is not the case in Python
unless you use the optional type
specifying stuff which I've never really
used so I love the fact that static
types of Java exist another is that it
tends there's a bias in the language it
has special features that force
interface inheritance so interfaces I
think are nicer so you get cleaner
inheritance another issue of things like
the private keyword which make
abstraction barrier solid and they keep
giant projects from collapsing under
their own weight because if you can't
edit the thing if you can't access
variables that I decide or private then
that keeps you from screwing something
up it also makes code more efficient for
example you can decide between hash map
or tree maps you can't you have single
value two rays which make them a little
faster than say Python and there's
actually another interesting topic which
is that basic data structures in Java
they more closely resemble what's inside
the actual computer so if we did
something like a ray deck and Python for
example it would be a little awkward
because there's no need there's no need
for array resizing the thing that feels
most like an array and python is a list
and let's actually already basically
they know they they run however they
want right if they extend automatically
actually what's interesting is this the
list in Python is actually an ArrayList
like we did in our class but you
wouldn't really know that the way to
good semantic work cool ok so any
thoughts about that for a cruise on a
few trivia points yeah
Java first-class citizens classes yeah
so but actually let's see what what is
really really easy to do in Java types
I'd say I mean you know types is the big
one because you can hack type checking
into pie